[Music]
very good morning to you welcome to
breakfast with dan walker and louise
minchin
tomorrow you will maybe find everything
but much better
than today tomorrow will be a good day
a hero who gave a nation hope today
we'll celebrate the life of captain sir
tom moore who's died at the age of 100.
well captain sir tom has taken his final
steps but as you can see here
at his home his name will live on
through his charitable foundation
that will benefit people for generations
to come
from his street to downing street at
number 10 this morning the union flag
flies
at half mast across the uk landmarks
including the blackpool tower wembley
stadium and the london eye illuminate
in his honor this morning we'll have
reaction and tributes from those he
loved
helped and inspired and the world of
sport that captain sir tom
loved so much has been paying tribute
the former olympic champion jessica
ennis hills said
he will forever be a hero to many people
she presented him with a special award
back in december and scientists discover
the oxford astrazeneca vaccine is 76
effective during the three months after
the first dose
good morning today we've got some rain
sleet and mostly hill snow
moving across northern ireland northern
england and scotland
southern england seeing some heavy rain
but in between a
bit of sunshine and just a few showers
i'll have all the details
later in the programme
[Music]
good morning it's wednesday it's the 3rd
of february and today's breakfast is a
special programme as
we celebrate the life of a man who gave
us so much
of his time over the last 10 months
captain sir tom moore who's died at the
age of 100.
from his wartime service to raising
nearly 40 million pounds for the nhs
will bring reaction
and tributes from those he loved helped
and inspires well breakfast john mcguire
is in bedfordshire at marston uh
mortaine this morning the village where
captain sir tom
lived john i know you've followed this
story very closely for many months and
it is a day of sadness but also one of
huge pride
yeah absolutely i think if we're playing
a game of captain tom bingo this morning
the word that would score you the most
points
is inspiration you hear it repeatedly
over and over
again what he did was just phenomenal it
was an activity almost a family joke
initially to give him something to do to
keep him busy and active in his 99th
year
during lockdown just before his birthday
but as the fundraising took off as his
story took off
it could only have happened during a
lockdown only during
a pandemic i suppose and it spread
around the world
people identified there was something
that they recognized
the hope the inspiration what this man
was doing
could help so many other people not just
directly with that cash
but of course the way that he spoke to
us those little messages of optimism
those pearls of wisdom
that made a big difference he especially
inspired
young people and that was really marked
over the past
10 months or so his first 99 years on
this planet he'd already lived a very
full and a very happy life but the last
year of his life the last 10 months
that's a different story and what a
story it is
from his street to downing street
some of our most famous landmarks paid
tribute to one
of our most cherished sons adored not
just by us
but by the world for the last 10 months
captain sir tom's family loaned him to
all of us
but for his final hours they had him to
themselves
in a statement they said we spent hours
chatting to him
reminiscing about our childhood and our
wonderful mother we shed laughter
and tears together the last year of our
father's life
was nothing short of remarkable he was
rejuvenated
and experienced things he'd only ever
dreamed of
captain sir tom moore was a hero
in the truest sense of the word in the
dark days of the second world war
he fought for freedom and in the face of
this country's
deepest post-war crisis he united us
all he cheered us all up and
he embodied the triumph of the human
spirit
he'd understand that we're sad and that
we're feeling a loss
but he would absolutely want us to
remember
what has happened what we did how we all
came together
how we united how we found in him a
beacon
while the rest of us adapted to living a
life locked down a 99 year old veteran
of the second world war
set off on a journey it would take him
to the top of the charts
into the record books and around the
globe
all without leaving his back garden
captain tom moore wanted to thank the
medical staff who'd cared for him
following a fall
i've had such marvelous service from the
national health service
particularly the nurses whenever
the idea was born raise money for nhs
charities
keep physically active during lockdown
and mark his 100th birthday
with 100 laps he might raise 100 pounds
but as he walked we watched and the
world
watched in amazement as the money went
into the stratosphere
and to a final total of almost 40
million pounds and in his wake
he redefined the charity single when you
walk
through a storm hold your head
up higher and don't be afraid
of the dark as the uk applauded the nhs
each week
its staff clapped for captain tom moore
thank you so much for all of your
efforts and how much money you've raised
in the nhs
thank you captain tom from the nhs
with his 100th birthday came a
spectacular and socially distanced
tribute a world war ii fly past
i'm one of the few people here who've
seen
a hurricane and spitfires
flying fast in anger fortunately today
they're all flying peacefully
[Music]
the task of delivering his birthday
cards became a logistical leviathan
as the planet sent its congratulations
as he inspired an army to follow in his
footsteps
he became an honorary colonel of the
army foundation college for young
soldiers
and in a specially arranged investiture
he received a private audience at
windsor castle
with her majesty the queen as she
awarded him
a knighthood
never never ever did i imagine that i
should get so
close to the queen and have such a kind
message from her
that was really outstanding it really
was truly outstanding
yesterday the queen said she had very
much enjoyed meeting captain sir tom and
his family
recognizing the inspiration he provided
for the whole nation
and across the world places for example
like the white house
which said we join the united kingdom
and the world
in honoring the memory of captain satom
moore
who inspired millions through his life
and
his actions and that inspiration
will continue along with his family he
was determined to leave
a legacy to build on his phenomenal
success
and the captain tom foundation was
created
its aims include tackling loneliness
supporting the bereaved and promoting
education
and equality he will always be
remembered for his
optimism his wisdom and his messages of
hope
the man who walked a hundred laps of his
garden to help others
and who implored us all to never walk
alone
tomorrow you will maybe find everything
but much better
than today tomorrow will be a good day
john mcguire bbc news bedfordshire
[Music]
wonderful to hear captain tom's voice i
must say stanley outside his home here
this morning some floral tributes have
started to appear
just behind me and as you can see the
banners on the front gates there talk
about that foundation
what he realized and what the family
realized probably quite early on
in his story really was just how big
the story was becoming how far his name
was traveling they had a foundation a
unique
opportunity to make a real difference as
i said earlier
not just not just the 40 million pounds
that he was raising for nhs charities
but but could it
mean something in the future to future
generations and that's why the
foundation
was started and on the banner it says
here in bold letters i'll read it to you
thank you we are so humbled
by the love and gratitude that we've
received
thank you so much tomorrow will be
a good day those words from captain tom
let's hope will always ring true really
as we remember him
he was a gent a classic old-fashioned
gentleman always
unfailingly polite very very generous
with his time when we used to come to
see him
we connected him with so many different
people he would always be very very
interested
in your life in their life in other
lives but what a life he lived
and it brought so much joy to so many
others
thank you so much john and we'll be work
with you throughout the morning um there
as well
and let's show you right now the live
shot from downing street this morning
where the union flag above number 10
is flying at half boris johnson
described captain sir tom moore
as a beacon of hope for the world and we
will of course when it gets a little bit
lighter be able to see it better
as well i know it's a conversation that
so many
individuals and families have been
having over the last sort of 24 hours
about him about his impact on all of us
as well so
do feel free to share um some of your
own memories and thoughts this morning
as well uh bbc breakfast
bbc dot co uk is where you can find us
on email
and as ever we are on social media as
well this morning
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news